# Daily routine for May 8, 2022

[10 Python Mistakes That Tell You're a Noody](https://medium.com/geekculture/10-python-mistakes-that-tell-youre-a-nooby-359487f22c97)
==========
>This manuscript was clipped from an article in the Medium daily digest written by Frank Andrade.

When we start learning Python, we got some bad coding habits that we're unaware of.

You might write code that gets the job done once but could fail in the futhre, or you might use workarounds when there's a built-in function that can make your life easier.

Most of us still have more than one of those bad Python habits that remain from our first months of learning. The good news is that you can easily fix them today with the snippets below.

1. Using import*

    Whenever we feel lazy, it's tempting to import everything from a module using the `from xyz import *`.

    This isn't good practice for many reasons. Th name a few:
    1. It can be inefficient:If the module has a good number of objects, you'll need to wait a long time until everything is imported
    2. It can cause conflict between variable names:When you use the `*` you don't know which objects you're importing as well as their names.

    How to deal with this? Either import the specific object you plan to use or the whole module.

    ```Python
    # Using import *

    # Bad
    from math improt *

    print(floor(2.4))
    print(ceil(2.4))
    print(pi)

    # Good
    import math
    from math import pi

    print(math.floor(2.4))
    print(math.ceil(2.4))
    print(pi)
    ```

2. Try/Except:Not specifying the exception in the "except" clause
    I've been neglecting this one for a long time.

    I can't count how many times Pycharm let me know (with those ugly underlines) that I shouldn't use a bare `except`. This isn't recommended in the PEP8 guidelines.

    ```Python
    # Try - except
    # Bad
    try:
        driver.fine_element(...)
    except:
        print("Which exception?")

        
    # Good
    try:
    driver.find_element(...)
    except NoSuchElementException:
        print("It's giving NoSuchElementException")
    except ElementClickInterceptedException:
        print("It's giving ElementClickInterceptedException")
    ```

    The problem with a bare `except` is that it will catch SystemExit and KeyboardInterrupt exceptions, making it harder to interrupt a program with Control-C.

    Next time you use try/except, specify the exception in the `except` clause.

3. Not using Numpy for math computations
    Often we forgot that there are packages that can make our life easier and more productive in Python.

    One of those packages you should use for math computations is Numpy. Numpy could help you solve math operations faster tha `for` loops.

    Say we have an array of `random_scores` and we want to get the average score of those who failed the exam (score<70). Let's try to solve this with a `for` loop.

    ```Python
    import numay as np

    random_scores = np.random.randint(1, 100, size=100000001)

    # Bad (solving problem with a for loop)
    count_failed = 0
    sum_failed = 0
    for score in random_scores:
        if score < 70:
            sum_failed += score
            count_failed += 1
            
    print(sum_failed/count_failed)
    ```

    Now let's solve this with Numpy.

    ```Python
    # Good (solving problem using vector operation)
    mean_failed = (random_scores[random_scores < 70]).mean()
    print(mean_failed)
    ```

    If you run both, you'll see that Numpy is faster. Why? Because Numpy vectorizes our operations.

4. Not closing a file previously opened
    A good practice everyone knows is that every file we open with Python must be closed.

    This is why we use the `open`, `write/read`, `close` whenever we work with files. That's OK, but if the `write/read` methods throw an exception, the file won't be closed.

    To avoid this issue, we have to use the `with` statement. This will close the file even if there's an exception.

    ```Python
    # Bad
    f = open('dataset.txt', 'w')
    f.write('new_data')
    f.close()

    # Good
    with open('dataset.txt', 'w') as f:
        f.write('new_data')
    ```

5. Not following PEP8
    [PEP8](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/) is a document everyone learning Python should read. It provides guidelines and best practices on how to write Python code (some of the advise in this article comes from PEP8)

    This guideline might be intimidating for those new to Python. Fortunately, some PEP8 rules are incorporated in IDEs (this is how I knew about the bare `except` rule).

    Say you're using Pycharm. If you write code that doesn't follow the PEP8 guidelines, you'll see those ugly underlines in the image below.

    If you hover over the underlines, you'll see instructions on how to fix them.

    In my case, I only have to add a white space after `,` and `:`
    ```Python
    # Good
    my_list = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]
    my_dict = {'key1': 'value1', 'key2': 'value2'}

    my_name = "Frank"
    ```

    I also changed the name of my variable `x` to `my_name`. This isn't suggested by Pycharm, but PEP8 recommends using variable names that are easy to understand.

    